We need to talk about animations,
which is similar to transitions.
But instead of relating to elements
that are entering or leaving the DOM,
animations apply to things inside each
block when the number of items in each
block, or
the contents of each block, changes.
So this is set up as it was at
the end of the last chapter.
If I total that, it's gonna move over.
But we wanna add something
that called a FLIP animation.
FLIP stands for first, last, invert, play.
And it's a technique that you can
use to smoothly animate element from
its old location to its new location
by doing some measurements and
applying a CSS transition.
It essentially reverses the movement and
then lets it undo itself so
that the DOM ends up in its final state.
Import  from 'svelte/animate'.
And then we're gonna find the the label
where we added those send and
receive transitions before.
Down here, I'm gonna add, animate:flip.
And we'll do the same
thing on the other label.
And now if I toggle this, Right,
some boxes are gonna move over to
the other side of the screen, but
the other four items will, hopefully,
gracefully move into their new location.
And there we go.
Just like with transitions,
we can add a duration parameter,
So that everything is
a little bit snappier.
And the duration parameter can
also be a function that receives,
as its argument, the number of
pixels that the element has to move.
So that an element that has to move
further will take longer to do so
than a element that only
has to move a few pixels.
And again, all of this stuff is
being done with CSS animation, so
it won't get blocked by the main thread.
So, earlier, we talked about component
lifecycle, unmount, beforeUpdate,
afterUpdate, and onDestroy.
But we also have a way of dealing
with element lifecycle, and
we call those actions.
Actions are essentially
element-level lifecycle functions.
And they're really useful for things like
interacting with third party libraries,
lazy loading images, doing tool tips or
adding custom event handlers.
In this app here,
we want to make this orange box pannable.
And on the box, we have a bunch of event
handlers for events that don't exist.
panstar, panmove and panend, right?
These are not native DOM elements.
So we need to dispatch those somehow.
And the way that we're gonna do it is
by importing this pannable action.
And then we're gonna make this
element a pannable element,
by which I mean that it will
dispatch these panstart, panmove,
panend events by adding
use the pannable action.
Now, nothing happens yet because we
haven't implemented the pannable function,
but we can do that.
I'm just gonna copy and paste this whole
thing in because you don't want to sit
here and
watch me type it Let's walk through it.
So we're creating some local
state inside the action.
And then we're creating a few
different event handlers,
a mousedown handler, a mousemove handler,
and a mouseup handler.
Then we're adding the mousedown handler,
which in turn is responsible for
adding the mousemove and
the mouseup handlers.
And then at the end of the action,
we return this object that has a destroy
function, which does any cleanup that's
necessary once the element
gets removed from the DOM.
And so now, hopefully, fingers crossed,
as I drag this around,
the element is now pannable.
And because it's just a function, this is
something that you can import into any
component, and you can use it
in multiple different places.
So you can imagine building a library of
actions that you need to use frequently in
your application.
Don't use this implementation of pannable,
because this is really for
demo purposes only.
If we were doing it for real, then you
would need to also handle touch events.
And this only handles mouse
events at the moment.
Just like with other directives,
we can add parameters to actions.
So this is a longpress action
that's been applied to this button.
use:longpress means that when we hold
the trackpad down on the button for
a long period of time,
a longpress event will get fired.
And that's implemented like this,
what we want to do is make it possible to
customize the duration of the longpress.
So that, Your application,
if you want a longpress
to be considered after 300 milliseconds,
then you can do that using the same action
as someone who wants a longpress to be
considered only after 1500 milliseconds.
And we can do that by allowing the action
function to take the second argument,
duration, and
using that inside our setTimeout.
At the moment, it's hard coded to 500,
which means that, We get the event after
500 milliseconds of
holding the mouse down.
Change that to duration, and then now it
will only fire after 2000 milliseconds.
I've done it wrong.
I haven't actually passed in
the duration from the action.
I need to add that here.
So now when I press this,
It'll make you wait for 2000 milliseconds.
Now if I turn this all the way
down to 100 milliseconds, It still
takes 2000 milliseconds because the action
doesn't know that that value has changed.
But we can add an update method to
our action that receives the new
value, And merges it with our local state.
So now, 2000 milliseconds, If I take this
down to 200 milliseconds,
It fires almost immediately.